---
layout: post
number: 1
language: english
title:  "Chapter 1: Disappointment of Arjun"
permalink: /english/1/
---

<center>Dhrutarashtra asks: </center>

1 O Sanjay (with divine eyes for discrimination of right and wrong)! What are my sons and Pandavas, who are eager to fight, doing in the holy battle field of Kursukshethra?

<center>Sanjay says: </center>

2 After seeing the orderly arranged army of Pandavas, Duryodhana approached his Guru Drona and said.

3 O Acharya! See this great army of the sons of Pandu, properly arranged by the son of Drupada and your intelligent disciple.

4 In this army there are great warriors comparable to Bheem and Arjun, like Yuyudhana (Satyaki), Virata and Drupadha. 

5 Besides these, Drushtaketu, Chekitan, the mighty King of Kasi, Purujit Kunti Bhoj and the great among men Shaibya, 

6 Very powerful Yudhamanyu and mighty Uttamouja,  Subadhra 's son Abhimanyu and the five sons of Darupadi are all great warriors.

7 O great among Brahmans! Our army also has great warriors which you should know. Let me list them for your knowledge.

8 You(Dronacharya),Bheeshma, Karna, war- winner Krupacharya, Aswatthama, Vikarna and son of Soumadatta (Bhurishrawa).

9 There are many more warriors, ready to sacrifice their lives for my sake and they are well armed and experts in war.

10 Our army, led by Bheeshma is of inadequate strength and the strength of their army is adequate, due to its protection by Bheem.

11 So all of you, staying at your respective places with your army must protect Bheeshma from all the sides.

12 Then to please Duryodhan, the mighty Bheeshma, eminent among Kuru clan, roaring like a lion, blew his conch.

13 Then, several conchs, drums, cymbals and gongs, blew together in unison which produced great sound.

14 After that Lord Krishna and Arjuna also blew their divine conches, while sitting on a great chariot drawn by white horses.

15 Lord Krishna blew his conch Panchajanya, Arjun blew his conch Devadatta and tremendously mighty, Bheem blew his great conch Poundram.

16 The king Yudhishthira, son of Kunti, blew his conch Ananta Vijaya, Nakul, his conch Sughosha and Sahadev, his conch Mani Pushpaka.

17 O king! The great archer Kashya, great charioteer Shikhandi, Dhrushtadhyumna, Virat, invincible Satyaki, 

18 Drupad, all sons of Draupadi, mighty Abhimanyu, son of Subadhra blew their conchs separately with full vigour.

19 That great sound through multiple resonance in earth and sky, shattered the hearts of the sons of Dhrutarashtra.

20,21 O king! Then, seeing your army well arranged and ready for battle with weapons, Arjun, with Sri Hanuman in his flag, lifted his bow and told infallible Lord Krishna, controller of everyone's heart - Please take this chariot in the middle of two armies

22 Till I observe all these warriors ready for the battle and decide whom I should fight myself.

23 I want to see these Kings who have come here to help evil minded Duryodhan, with a wish to fight against us.

24, 25 Sanjay said: The Lord Krishna, when told like this by Arjuna, positioned the chariot in the middle of the armies and told him - O Parth, see these great warriors of Kuru clan mainly Bheeshma and Drona and all other kings.

26 Then Arjun saw his uncles, grand father, teachers, maternal uncle, brothers, sons and grand sons, in-laws and well-wishers in both the armies.

27 Seeing his relatives all over there, Arjuna felt compassion and became sad. He said-

28, 29 Arjun said - O Krishna! I only see my relatives here, wishing to fight us. My body is becoming weak,  mouth dry, my body is trembling with hair erect.

30 My bow, Gandeev is slipping from my hand and skin is burning. I am not able to even stand erect, my mind is swirling

31 O Keshav! I am seeing signs of bad omens only and do not see any gain in killing these relatives.

32 O Krishna! I do not desire victory or kingdom or sensory pleasures. O Govind! what is the use in having such kingdom, pleasures and life?

33 The same people for whom, we desire kingdom, pleasures and happiness are here to fight with us keeping aside all the hopes of life and money.

34 Teachers, uncles, sons, grand-father, maternal uncles, in laws, grand-sons, brothers in law and all other relatives.

35 O killer of Madhu! Even if they try to kill me or I am becoming the king of the three worlds on doing so, I am not interested in killing them. Then why for this trivial kingdom of earth.

36 O Janardan! What happiness will we achieve by killing these sons of Dhrutarashtra? On killing these aggressors, only sin will get attached to us.

37 O Madhav!, So it is not proper for us to kill our relatives, the sons of Dhrutarashtra. How can we please ourselves by killing our relatives ?

38, 39 Though, due to their increased greed they they do not see the demerit in destroying the their dynasty and fighting with their friends, but O Janardan! we, who know the sin in destruction of dynasty should try to avoid committing such a sin.

40 When dynasties are destroyed, their traditional righteousness and just rituals also get destroyed. And due to the downfall of righteousness, injustice tends to grow.

41 O Krishna! When injustice grows, women of the clan lose their sanctity. O Varshneya! And when women lose their sanctity, kids with a mixture of the castes take birth.

42 Such mixed-caste kid leads the dynasties and their destroyers to hell. Even their ancestors fall from their place due to discontinuities in the rituals performed for them. 

43 Defects of mixed-caste causes these destroyer of dynasties to lose their traditional righteousness of dynasty and caste.

44 O Janardan!, We have heard that those who destroy the righteousness of their dynasty live in hell for indefinitely long time.

45 Alas! We are ready to commit a great sin by killing our own people for the greed of kingdom and pleasure.

46 Even if the armed sons of Dhrutarashtra kill me, who is not willing to fight and unarmed, it would be better for my well-being.

47 Sanjay said - After saying this, a visibly dejected Arjuna gave up his bows along with arrows and sat at the back of his chariot.

<a href="/english/2/" class="next">Next &raquo;</a>